Let me see how to  dynamically allocate memory from the heap using pointers.
So if I say integer star P then pointer will be created and assign new int of size 5.
So an array of size 5 will be created in heap.
then if I want to store some elements I can store them P of zero.
Assign 12 and P[1].
Assign 13 in this way I can store some elements.
Then if I want I can display the elements also that is P of one,
I can access it just like an array.
And also I will say endl, and if  I don't want P then I should not make P assign null.
If I make this then the pointer will no more be pointing.
on This dynamic memory.
So instead of this first of all I should delete this array then I should make pointer as null. an done more suggestion is
in modern C++.
Don't use n u l l, null.
But use  nullptr.
Null pointer.
So this is buildin literal that is meant only for the pointer.
So if you want to make a pointer as null then use this literal.
So this is how you can create an array in a heap.
Let us see what is the benefit of having a array in heap.
Suppose I'm declaring an array of type Integer of size 10 in my program then as long as my program is
running this array will remain of size 10 only this array  cannot be changed later on and cannot
say that I want an array of size 20 there is no  syntax available in C++ for changing the size
of a existing Array.
Then the problem is if I directly create an array in my program of some size and give it to the user
then user maybe having different number of elements if they are more than 10 then it will be difficult
for the user to use my program.
I want to create an array depending on the number of elements user it is going to store in an array.
So for that I will take size from the user, i will say cout Enter number of elements that he is going to enter.
Then I will read size. then later I will create an array of this size.
So OK this is also good, now my program will be creating an array, that
Depends on the requirements of the user.
Let us confirm the size of an array here and use size of operator for a and also.
endl, let's run this program and see
now here the program was asking enter the number of elements.
I will say I want 20 elements now.
Size of, it has displayed the size of an array 80.
reason it is of type integer, array I'm creating of type integer so it is 20x4  so
that is 80 bytes.
again I am trying for different size.
I will give the size as 5.
Not this time an array size is 20 bytes because 5x4 is 20.
So it is creating an array of size only 5 integers so that is 20 bytes so now the problem is solved.
Whenever the user uses my program he will give the number of elements and that size array is created.
as a  C++ allows dynamic declarations So this is possible for taking the size from the user and
creating this array, now
Basically this is created inside stack.
And here we are taking the size of an array.
Then we are creating it inside the stack.
So this is good, but again afterwards again I want to change suppose size as 35.
Then I say I want to create and change the size of array  to new size.
So there is no syntax available for changing the size.
I cannot change it at all.
There is no syntax.
So once an array is created within a program of some size then it cannot be modified and this arrays are created
inside stack.
suppose I want to modify the size of an array as and when required.
I may be taking some size and again I am reducing the size or increasing the size of an array.
Then I want to dynamic array inside heap.
So let us see how we can do this here.
I'm already asking for the number of elements.
That is I'm taking the size of then I will take a pointer and create an array I will say new integer of size.
Now I even get an array of a given size.
Then after using it for some time again I can ask cout enter new size so I can ask for size again and
cin I will take size.
Then I want to modify the size of this  P.
right now the size of the P is whatever it is given initially.
Now I wanted to modify it so I can take the size again and I will say P assign in new int of size again.
So it means I can create a new Array again inside heap with a different size and assign it to P..
Initially it was created for a given size.
Then later a new size was given an array of newsize will be created.
So I'll make it simple instead of doing it like this.
I'll show you in a simple way that Suppose I will take a point and create a new array of size 20.
Now this is an array created with some size that size 20 in heap.
Now later on in the program if I want a new array of of larger size that is int of size 40 I can
create it.
So now the array of size 40 will be created in heap and same pointer P will be pointing.
Now here if I access P like if I say P of I then I can take it from zero to 19 and here if I say
P of i then I can take P of I from zero to 39.
So tho the size of an array is creator, with the same pointer
I have created a larger size array.
So this is the benefit of having array inside heap or dynamically creating the memory.
But one more important point is here already I was having an array of size 20, then later on
I'm creating a new array of larger size that is 40 then what will happen to this existing array.
So before changing pointer P to point on the New array I should delete P
and then create an array of larger size.
So this is a good practice otherwise this will lead to a memory leak.
So this is a array of size 20, then later a new array of size 40 is created.
And this is no more in use.
Before that we will delete it and use it.
So having array inside the heap with the help of pointers is that pointers remains same.
And that pointer can be pointing to any size of memory maybe one time 20 size of array
Then later on 40 size of array, This is the flexibility that we get with the help of Heap.
So our programs can become more dynamic and during their runtime they can change the sizes of the memory
or they can make the pointer point on different size memory So we will be using this further
in our program.
This is just the introduction about the heap memory.
Later on you will see a lot about heap memory and the pointers.